a lot of people feel that somehow the
political approach to veganism ecology
in animal rights is more depressing than
the lifestyle approach or the consumer
centered approach or the yoga centered
approach or the health and fitness and
weight loss centered approach and it's
not and I'll tell you why I'm gonna
respond here to just a couple of seconds
from a podcast by a guy named Michael
good child he uses the name the vegan
activist on the internet but obviously
we're gonna refer to him as Michael good
child because calling him the vegan
activist is just ridiculous but here's a
here's a moment of of him reflecting on
how bleak and depressing the reality of
his life is vegan activist really is
it's a long par guys did a two hour
podcast meditating on how disappointed
he is with me gizem I understand and uh
you'll see why actually an explicitly
political approach to veganism is in
many ways much more optimistic it gives
me a much brighter outlook on life here
we go it's a very long slow process of
supply and demand where we will have to
keep not buying these products and
buying the other products for them to
realize that we need to stop glass a lot
of products get wasted along the way and
that's quite hard to deal with and we
can use that as a justification to keep
eating animals but you know 500 people
stopped buying the regular milk and
start buying the soy milk they put like
two less crates of that in the
supermarket very slowly we start to see
a less demand for the farmers so they
stop breeding as many animals and and
then there were suddenly start to
realize there's less profit in the
business and then me okay so as you got
from even those few seconds uh this view
of the world he's describing is one of
consumer centered activism the idea that
gradually a larger and larger percentage
of people are refusing during cow milk
and thus as he says stores stop buying
cow milk and then cows stop being bred
to live their lives in captivity to
produce cow milk etc and that view
basically entails that we only achieve a
vegan world or a vegan society or even a
vegan town when we get way past fifty
one percent of the population being
vegan so as a matter of fact my view my
really explicitly political view of
veganism is much more optimistic because
I think that five percent of people can
have a dynamic impact on society and
I've seen that again and again it is not
the case that homosexuals needed to
become 51% of society to get their
changes to the law is passed it is not
the case that activists who were against
cigarette smoking had to become 51
percent of the population to get their
changes to our society past and they're
quite dramatic I'm not really old enough
to remember that change it's really my
parents generation who can remember the
time when cigarette smoking was
everywhere it was a time when if you
bought a boardroom table if you bought a
table for boardroom meetings it had
ashtrays built into it people were
smoking all the time during public
meetings etc etc it is definitely not
the case one of my favorite examples to
look at is you know the groups that are
against drunk driving like Mothers
Against Drunk Driving they didn't have
to become 51% the population they didn't
even have to become ten percent of the
population they made dramatic changes of
the society we live in these are success
stories there are also tragic failures I
think I think we can look at a you know
the status of First Nations people in
Canada or indigenous people of minority
groups that failed to put together the
aspects necessary to succeed as
lobbyists to bring about the political
changes they wanted I do think you know
it's very it's very sad I sympathize
with I support I would much prefer to be
in a country like Canada if our
government did support for example the
the status of indigenous peoples
languages etc etc it's an issue have
been involved in the past city should I
care about it's not my point my point is
to say this is a failure not all the
examples are positive we can look at
positive examples we can look at
negative examples and obviously in terms
their political organization their
funding their access to government in
many ways the struggle for gay rights
had many many advantages tactical
advantages over the struggle for First
Nations rights indigenous peoples rights
in Canada not getting into this video my
view of veganism is that we can win with
five percent his view of veganism is we
could only win with something like
ninety percent and that's why he's so
depressed he actually is
thinking of this short term and long
term as a kind of consumer boycott if
you search for the word boycott on this
channel oh I think it's on this channel
but I also did a whole podcast on the
boycott mentality with in veganism and I
think that's a patreon only podcast so
I'm sorry I forget to what extent it's
on YouTube to what I sense on patreon
but I do think that the boycott
mentality with in veganism is actually
problematic the boycott mentality takes
us so far but only so far and no further
and we have to move past that and I did
I'm sorry maybe I should dig up that
podcast and actually upload part of it
to YouTube because it's a really good
discussion and a lot of people said to
be response to that wow I never thought
about that before but it's true veganism
it partly is a boycott movement and it
partly is not and again we can just come
back to a simple example like cigarette
smoking the anti-smoking movement is not
just a boycott movement they're not just
trying to boycott cigarettes it's also a
public education movement it's a public
policy movement because they're trying
to stop everyone from smoking cigarettes
and yes that does sometimes result in
ridiculous laws like I used to walk past
a hospital in Canada and all the time
you would see the medical doctors not
the patients the doctors and the nurses
who would have to walk outside the
hospital and walk to the nearest street
corner to smoke a cigarette because now
we got these laws in Canada that you you
can't smoke inside the hospital you
can't even smoke close to the hospital
it's a it's oppressive we're opressing
the cigarette smokers I admit it but
this is part of a grander design for
social change that we're engaged in
pursuing what percentage of Canadians
were ever a part of that movement
wherever part of an actual organized
political movement to bring about social
change to gradually eliminate cigarette
smoking and do not so gradually at all
stigmatize cigarette smoke that's what
is is a stigma we're making those
medical doctors ashamed that they still
smoke cigarettes while they're advising
other people to quit smoking this push
and pull it is what it is I don't even
think five percent of Canadians ever got
organized or ever got engaged but we
managed to achieve that social change I
i doubt i really doubt ten percent of
people were really active and organized
in gay rights movements it's probably if
you could get a realistic estimates
pretty much smaller than that but again
gay rights movements had some some
really big advantages in terms of the
fact that homosexuals are distributed
throughout the whole society pretty much
randomly and pretty much equally so
there were gay lawyers that were gay p
but within the government there were gay
people there also of course gay people
living in poverty don't get me wrong
there are gay people who work at the
corner store there are gay people who
work at the gas station but the fact
that there were some gay people who were
already lobbyists for the federal
government who already lawyers who
already had those positions that was a
huge advantage and for our indigenous
people in Canada you have to be dreaming
if you think indigenous people in Canada
are distributed randomly or evenly
they're not distributed evenly
geographically they're not distribute it
evenly financially like in terms of
their their economic situation of
society etc etc there are really huge
obstacles for them to overcome that
that's and that's one of the reasons why
as a dynamic minority rights based
movement homosexuals are so much more
effective so much more successful than
indigenous people in Canada what's our
status vegans what's it going to be for
us are we going to be a bunch of
losers with yoga mats selling weight
loss dreams is that the future of
veganism your choice you decide are we
going to be as my good friend Charles
Marlow say are we going to be a bunch of
degenerates selling fad diet books Oh
are we gonna put ourselves into the
hippy ghetto or the left-wing ghetto or
the anti-capitalist ghetto or are we
going to be in the in a sense the
pro-capitalist ghetto are we going to be
just another consumerist fat hobby
selling you you know all the different
ways you can make money out of vegan
cheese or whatever what's it gonna be I
think we can look at the groups that
lobbied for change on cigarettes on
alcohol on drunk driving the groups that
lobby for gay rights I think we can do
better I think as you we have a lot of
advantages over groups that are really
oppressed that are really marginalized
some vegans are rich something's are
poor but actually there's no excuse for
what pathetic failures you've been so
far I think with far fewer than five
percent of people becoming vegan we can
actually start lobbying for dynamic
social change and yes some of that is
from the grassroots is from the bottom
up but some of it if we're being honest
is from the top down